# [State](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/state)
- State is a behavioral design pattern that lets an object alter its behavior when its internal state changes. It appears as if the object changed its class.
- The state machine can be designed using conditional statements. The biggest weakness of a state machine based on conditionals reveals itself once we start adding more and more states and state-dependent behaviors. Most methods will contain monstrous conditionals that pick the proper behavior of a method according to the current state. Code like this is very difficult to maintain because any change to the transition logic may require changing state conditionals in every method.
- The State pattern suggests that you **create new classes for all possible states of an object and extract all state-specific behaviors into these classes.**
- Instead of implementing all behaviors on its own, the original object, called **context**, stores a reference to one of the state objects that represents its current state, and delegates all the state-related work to that object.
- To transition the context into another state, replace the active state object with another object that represents that new state. This is possible only if all state classes follow the same interface and the context itself works with these objects through that interface.
- In the State pattern, the particular states may be aware of each other and initiate transitions from one state to another, whereas strategies almost never know about each other.